DBMS Architecture :
What is asbtraction ?
The hiding of the working of the data is called abstaction and the view if called as the abstract view .

The DBMS has to provide a abstract view of the data that are present in the order strructure in the form of the tables .

There has to be a hiding of the details of the un-necessary table data in the 
dbms that not has to be used or has to be ascessed .

Three Schema Architectrue -> View of data  
1.Physical data / Internal data :
This is the lowest level of abstraction that is stored .
In this level there is a use of the low level data structures  .
This physcial or the Internal structure debscirbes the internal view of the data in the DBMS. 


The GOAL : this level has the goaal  of the efifcient ascess of the data . 

2.Logical level  :
This is the conceptual level and describes the level of the data at the conceptual level .
This is used to store the content of the data in the DBMS and the tables .
DB-algorithms that are used to define the level and the efficincy of the data storage . 

view Level / Extenal level :
This is the highest level that describes the interaction of the system By providing different view to the different levels. 

In short the Physcial level of the data is -> How the data is stored in the file or in the memeory or in hte disc .
This level descirbes the alogithm behind the storing of the data . 


In the conceptual level  the data in the tables is shown and is managed , this level is use ot show the way the data in teh tables is dispalyed . 


The conversion of the data from the ohyscial and the logical level is called as the physical to logical level mapping of the data  .


The relaton between the different tables contents is calles the logical Relation of  the data . 
The change in the data at the physcial level , the same changes are shwon in the dtaa ata the Logical level or at the conceptual level.

The highest level of the abstraction in the DBMs is at the view level and the schema ata this level is called as hte view schema  .

At the external level , a database contains several SCHEMA called as the Subschema  .

This veiw level also provies a level of securrity at the severak oarts of the DBMS . 

Instance of DBMS  :
The inputs or the values that are stored in a particular database at a given point of time is callled as the instance of the data base .

Overall desgin  of the DBMS wiht the logical , physical and External schema is called as the Schema . 

Point or Rules for the DBMS schema :
1.atrributes of the tables 
2.Consistency contraints - Use of the primary key or the use of the foreign  key  .
3.Reltionships . 
The most important schema in the whole context is the Logical schema because htat is the one that defines the input and the contents of the table. 


Data Models  :
Provides a way to define the design or the schema of the DB. 
The model is the conceptul way of definng the data  , data relationships and the data scemantics . 

There are several models , for exmaple ER model , relational model , object orieted model and the object - realtional model. 

Data base Langauge :
Data base defination Language -> to specify the database schema . 
Data Manipluation Lnagauge -> to express the database and the queries and the updates .


What does the DML or the data manipluation language contains ? 
The DML contins the following : 
1.Retrival 
2.Insertions 
3.Deletions
4.Updations 

Query language , that is use to find the data from the databas .
SQL has both DML AND THE DDL  .


cross - converstion of the Lnagauge to the Backend of the database server :
There has to be differnce or the conversion made to the langauge of the servers . 

The administator send the query of the data ot the actual sevrver and then convert the actual query of the package to the real qiery and make the computations.
The reply is send again back to the complier and the output is shown . 


Data base administator  :
This has the centeral control of both data and the program and is used to ascess both the data. 
There are several task that the DataBase administrator has to do  :
1.Schema defination 
2.Storage structure and ascess methods 
3.aurthoirzartion method 
4.Routine Maintianence 

There are several server for the Architeciure of the DBMS :
Some of the DBMS values are the T1, T2 and finally the T3 server .
The best application form the abobe is the WWW architecture . 
The Teir -3 network is very vast and has a lot of latency due to a lot of connected networks. 
The scalebility is a factor in the distributed networks and the distributed servers. 
