ER-model (data-model)

The data models work in  the layer and in the forms of the conceptual models
and these models works for the fine and the efficiency of the proper DBMS . 

The above model is called as the Enity-realtion model . 

what is the ER model  ?
The ER model is a high level model based on the perception of a real world thay consist of the collection of basic objects called the enities and of the relationship among these projects . 

Grahpical represenation of the model is called as the ER diagram and the Blueprint of this is the DB .

Every eninty has attributes and these attribute define the data for the input .

The diagram representing the attrinute with the centeral cahracter is called as the ER diagram and the whole diagram in a nutshell is called as the  ER model . 

Entity  : This is a object in the real world that is distinguishable from the other objects.
It has a physical significane .
Each student in a college is an entity . 

Strong : This can be uniqeuly identified .
Weak  : This cant be uniquely identidied and this is dependent on the other strong enity . 

An example to the above are: 
Weak : age , name , batch 
strong : address  , ph.no

The unique attribute of the Chracter in thev E-R model is called as the Primary key .

entity set: It is a set of the same type that share the same properties and the same attributes .
The example to this is  : student is a enitiy set  .
Customer of a bank is a entity set. 

Set of the above exmple is called as the entity set .


Attributes : 
There exist properties of the person that are callld as the attributes of the perosn. Every attribute has a permitted value . The attributes has domain , value that could either be permiteed asnd maybe not permittted . 

Relationship between the entity  :
The realtion is shown  using the normal , realtions that were in the java langauge  . 

Type of attributes  :
Simple attribute  :These are the one that cannot be divided further .
These include exmaple like the person's phone number , age etc. 

Composite attribute : These are the once that could be dvide into the sub-parts and these include the exmaple like the address of the person , name , etc . 

Single values attribute : These are the one wiht onyl one value. 
Example the student id , loan number of the person.

Multi-valued output: These are the one that has more than one value .
Example to this is the phone numebr . 

Derived attribute : These are the one that are derived form other key attributes . These are often related. 

Null value : These are the one that have the value as NULL or as empty value .  These in the database are use to indicate that these area or the contents are empty or may not applicable to the database. Somtime these are use to indicate the empty value as well .

The devried attribute are shown using the dotted circles . 
Null does not mean the value is 0 , but tyhe null means that there is no value and the container type is empty for that. 

Relationship between attributes  :
These are always between two or more than two attributes  . These may be between two entities .
Example to this is  : person-> has-> car .

Difference between the Strong and the weak entity  :
The one that are independnt are called as the Strong entity whereas the one that cannot exist together are called as the weka entity  .

These entity extend the relationshiop between the attributes  :
1.Strong realtionship : These are the attribute of the strong entity . 
These are recognised with a primary key .

2.Weak realtionship : These are the one that are not recognised with the Primary key .

The weak entity are dependent on the strong entity . 

Degree of relation :
In a relation the number of entity in total or ther sum is called as the Degree of that particular relation .

The degree of the realtion is based on the number of the entity in the rlation and based on those therr are  :
1.Unary realtion : Dgree is 1
2.Binary : degree is 2 
3.Ternary relartionship : 3 degree relationship .

Relationship constraint:
Mapping cardinality :Number of entities to which anathor realtion that could be mapped or associated via  a reltionship. These are simialr ot the basic maths functions :
1.One to one
2.Many to one 
3.One to many 
4.Many to many 

Desiging Database 
ER modelling  :
The ER based model is also called as the Enity relationshiop model that is a collection of the object called the enenties and of the relationship between the objects. 

There has to be a realtionship between the eninties between the models. 

Entity : The distinguishable objects from one anathor is called as the Enity. There has to be attribtues defined so that there is a perfect Entity  set that work finely .

To describe the entity there has to be the attributes defined finely  .

Domain  : A unique set of values permittted for an attribute . These arre very very specific and these have to stick to  the context of the attribute of the entity . 

Relationship  : An assocaition amaong two  or more entity  . The relationshipm are supposed to be always between the two entity . 

A relationship set is a set of similar type .These are to the context that the primary key is used in the identification  as well as the distinguising betweent the two input that may be same .
So we can say that the key is the attribute of that makes out the difference based on some set of attribute that make differnce for the entity inputs or the entity set . 

Key could have a single attribute ior key could have a set of attributes .

ER diagram  : Major three diagram 
1.Entity set ->represented by a rectangular box 
2.Relationship set -> represented using a dimond
3.Attribtues -> using  a oval.

These above are similar to the UML diagram that were in the advanced programming .

Relationship between the two entity  :
1.Urnary 
2.binary 
3.teranry 
