Extended Entity model diagram 
For bigger er models there are some important features that has to be use to make the er working and functioning : 

Feature1 : Specialization 
When for example a person is a user on the website , in addition it is a customer on the same website , hence addtion of the customer attribtue to this would lead to a lot of redundancy in this  , so the tthere is a spliting of the attribute that is done , and hence this is callled as the specialization.

There are two entiy set formed one named the user and the other named as the customer . 
The opposite of this is the generalization where the divide attributes are united to make a whole new group .

In the specialization there is a ternary realtiosnhip that is experienced  although there could be some of more than  2 attribtue on the same .

In the sepcialization there is always a Is -a realtion that is being followed  .

In the specialization there is a : 
1.Top - down apporach that is being followed  .
abstract level  -> specialized level - > more specialized level -> end fully working level. 

Officail defination of the specialization  :
This is the breaking of the entity set basedd on the functioanliy , special and the features. 

Whole motivation is to remove the redundant attribute from the er model based on the need  . To remove the redunant attribute , we can divide the whoel entity into the specialized fucntional entity . 

Generalization  :
This is the reverse of the specialization process , also the appraoch is called as bottom  - up approach for the making of the Generalized set . 
The speicalization uses the top down and the geenraliation uses the bottoms-up apporach .
Common properties unite to form the generalized set in the dbms er diagrams .

Inheritancee  :
This is very commmon , this is bascially the inhertiacneof the useful and the common attribute from the parent into teh child entity . 
Both the specialisation and the generaliatiosatin uses the inheritance  .
Example -> dog and cat are both animal.
Participation Inheritance -> if the parent participate in a realtion then the child will also take part in the relation  this is called as the participation rule of the inheritance .

Aggregation-> This is also one of the most important attribute  .

what is a quaternary relationship ? 
this is a relationship where more than three participating iun the single reaslitonship this is called as the quatinery relationshiop .

In this a combination of the several entity are considered as the entiy and is connected to anathor entity sas a function .
In this there is a follwinfg of the abstraction and using that in mind we connect the enetiy wiht those in the form of the realiton and this is called as the aggreation  .

Officially :To show the realtionship in the realtipnship in the set it is called as the aggreation  .
what is the motivation and the step needed to make the aggration  ?
The first and the formost step is to use the concept of the abstsravtion and avoid the redundancy in the same .


In the abstract scheme of the thing -> aggreatioin is basivcally the relationship with the realtionship + some attribute  .
